Write-only argument GA (#36572)
hashicorp/terraform: website/docs/language/resources/ephemeral/index.mdx

it. This happens after the providers that depend on an ephemeral resource
complete all of their work for the current Terraform run phase. For example, closing a Vault secret ephemeral resource means the Vault provider explicitly ends the lease, allowing Vault to immediately revoke the associated credentials.

Terraform follows these lifecycle steps for each instance of an ephemeral
resource in a given configuration.

### Configuration model

To learn more about the `ephemeral` block, refer to the [Ephemeral resource reference](/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral/reference).
To learn more about the `ephemeral` resource block, refer to the [Ephemeral resource reference](/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral/reference).

## Write-only arguments

-> **Public Beta**: Write-only arguments are in public beta and available in Terraform v1.11 and later.  Public beta features and APIs are subject to change.
Terraform resources can include ephemeral arguments, called **write-only arguments**. Unlike other ephemeral constructs in Terraform, write-only arguments accept both ephemeral and non-ephemeral values. 

> Terraform resources can include ephemeral arguments, also known as attributes, for data that only needs to exist temporarily. An ephemeral argument on a resource is called a "write-only argument". Write-only arguments can help store generated sensitive data for the current Terraform operation, such as a short-lived password, token, or session identifier.

Reviewer: Can we say "managed resources" in this sentence? I worry that since this directly follows the ephemeral resources section, people might think resources here is talking about ephemeral resources

---
page_title: Ephemeral resources
description: Learn how to keep sensitive resource data out of state and plan files in Terraform with ephemeral resource blocks and write-only arguments.
---

# Ephemerality in resources

Managing infrastructure often requires creating and handling temporary sensitive values that you may not want Terraform to persist outside of the current operation. Terraform provides two tools for resources to manage data you do not want to store in state or plan files: the `ephemeral` resource block and ephemeral write-only arguments on specific resources.

## Ephemeral resources

> Ephemeral resources are Terraform resources that are essentially temporary. Ephemeral resources have a unique lifecycle, and Terraform does not store information about ephemeral resources in state or plan files. Each `ephemeral` block describes one or more ephemeral resources, such as a temporary password or connection to another system.

Author: I think we leave this out _until_ Vault has a write-only arg we can use. The idea behind it is great, but until we can back it up that idea with an example it feels better to me to leave it out for now.

to periodically renew it. For example, if Terraform renews a Vault secret `ephemeral` resource, the Vault provider calls Vault's lease renewal API endpoint to extend the expiration time.

1. Once Terraform no longer needs an ephemeral resource, Terraform closes
it. This happens after the providers that depend on an ephemeral resource
complete all of their work for the current Terraform run phase. For example, closing a Vault secret ephemeral resource means the Vault provider explicitly ends the lease, allowing Vault to immediately revoke the associated credentials.

Terraform follows these lifecycle steps for each instance of an ephemeral
resource in a given configuration.

### Configuration model

To learn more about the `ephemeral` resource block, refer to the [Ephemeral resource reference](/terraform/language/resources/ephemeral/reference).

## Write-only arguments

Terraform's managed resources, defined by `resource` blocks, can include ephemeral arguments, called **write-only arguments**. Write-only arguments are only available during the current Terraform operation, and Terraform does not store them in state or plan files.  

> Use write-only arguments to securely pass temporary values to resources during a Terraform operation without worrying about Terraform persisting those values. For example, the `aws_db_instance` resource has a write-only `password_wo` argument that accepts a database password:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use write-only arguments to securely pass ephemeral values to resources during a Terraform operation. Like other ephemeral values, Terraform does not persist the values of write-only arguments in state or plan files. For example, the `aws_db_instance` resource has a write-only `password_wo` argument that accepts a database password:
```

Reviewer 2: We also need to mention the `password_wo_version` attribute. Incidentally, the `_version` arguments will be required whenever someone uses the `_wo` argument, at least for the [AWS provider](https://hashicorp.slack.com/archives/C071HC4JJCC/p1740499398901699).

Here's what I put in the tutorial:

```
Because Terraform does not store the value of write-only arguments, it cannot
detect if the value of a write-only argument changed in your configuration. To
track whether a write-only argument changes, the AWS provider includes
accompanying versioning arguments: `password_wo` uses `password_wo_version` and
`value_wo` uses `value_wo_version`.

Versioning arguments are tracked in state. You can indicate to Terraform and
providers that a write-only arguments has changed by incrementing the
corresponding `_version` argument. For example, incrementing
`password_wo_version` lets Terraform know the value of `password_wo` has
changed. Terraform then records that change in its plan, notifying the provider
that `password_wo` has a new value it can use.
```

Also, we should make it clear that the `_wo`/`_wo_version` pattern isn't required, and not every provider has to follow the same pattern AWS uses (although they probably mostly will).

Reviewer 2: Oh, I see later on that it's on the write-only page, but I think we should mention it here as well since the example includes them.

Author: I actually don't want to get into versioning here since this is just the overview, and I'm trying to keep the scope pretty high-level to the what/why use a write-only arg. 

Garvita asked I include the versioning argument for best practices, which I agree is a good idea, but I want people to go the full page for all the details of how the arg works and how versioning works.
